mont-blanc.txt
Created Tue Jun 11 11:40:47 AKDT 2019
Copyright (C) 2019 by Raymond E. Marcil <marcilr@gmail.com>


Mont-Blanc


Aiguille du midi. Chamonix Mont-Blanc Tourist Office presents you the
Europe’s highest cable car of the Aiguille du Midi.  Discover all the
useful information (timetable and rates for Chamonix ski pass) to
enjoy a unique view of Mont-Blanc.
...
For more than 60 years, the most famous and one of the highest aiguille
de Chamonix has been an essential world attraction.  From the centre of
Chamonix, a 20 minutes ride with the Aiguille du Midi cable car takes
you to the gateway of High Mountain at a height of 3,842 m.

From its height of 3,777m, the Aiguille du Midi and its laid-out terraces
offer a 360° view of all the French, Swiss and Italian Alps.  A lift brings
you to the summit terrace at 3,842m, where you will have a clear view of
Mont Blanc.

LE PAS DANS LE VIDE !
Since December 21st 2013, the more fearless will take A STEP INTO THE VOID,
onto a 2.50 m glass cage out over a 1000 m precipice.  A product of modern
architectural and technical prowess and a sensation packed experience. 


THE PIPE
A long steel gallery of 32m to make the full rotation of the central peak
of the Aiguille du Midi.


RESTAURANTS
A cafeteria and a souvenir shop are open all year round.  In the summer,
the "3842m" restaurant invites you to taste Savoie culinary specialities
in a unique setting.


PANORAMIC MONT BLANC GONDOLA
Once at the top, do not miss the gondola lift ride over the Glacier du Géant
to the Pointe Helbronner in Italy. It is open from June to September.


PLAN DE L'AIGUILLE
The cable car ride between Chamonix and Aiguille du Midi is in two stages.
At the intermediate stop, at a height of 2,310m, the Plan de l'Aiguille
is the departure point for the Balcon Nord hike to the Montenvers site.
Food and refreshments are available at lunch-time at the Refuge du Plan,
5 minutes’ walk away. A very pleasant break in the mountains !


ORGANISE YOUR VISIT
- Provide warm clothing, sunglasses and sunscreen.
- Tour forbidden for children under 3 years, and not recommended
  under 5 years old.
- Time of outward journey: 20 mn in 2 cable cars climbing 2700 m,
  with a stop on the way at the Plan de l’Aiguille.
- Duration of visit: including the journey, allow an average of 2 to 3 hrs.
- Timetables and frequency of departure vary according to the time of year
  and according to demand.

--Aiguille du Midi - Step into the Void 
  www.chamonix.com/aiguille-du-midi-step-into-the-void,80,en.html


Links
=====
Aiguille du Midi - Step into the Void
https://www.chamonix.com/aiguille-du-midi-step-into-the-void,80,en.html

Aiguille du Midi
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
The Aiguille du Midi (3,842 m (12,605 ft)) is a mountain in the
Mont Blanc massif within the French Alps.  It is a popular tourist
destination and can be directly accessed by cable car from Chamonix
that takes visitors close to Mont Blanc.[3] 
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Aiguille_du_Midi
